---
layout: default
title: 25th January
description: ZEPs Meeting Notes for 2024-01-25
grand_parent: ZEP meetings
parent: 2024 meetings
nav_order: 2
---

# 2024-01-25

**Attending:** Sanket Verma (SV) and Jeremy Maitin-Shepard (JMS)

## TL;DR:

Discussion centers on revising ZEP0 with proposals to streamline the process, including incorporating reading and implementation phases, and considering methods to increase user engagement and ensure smooth decision-making, with attention given to potential veto options and quorum requirements.

**Meeting Minutes:**

- ZEP0 Revision
    - <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zeps/issues/55#issuecomment-1905156595>
    - JMS: Both Ryan's and SV proposal can work together
    - SV: We can have an issue for reading/implementation comments and PR for the actual change
    - JMS: The idea of reading and implementation phase is an improvement from the existing proposal
    - JMS: The people who care about Zarr specification is less but streamlining the process is equally important
    - JMS: Create new issues if the discussion gets long and link it to the PR - and you can add it to the description
    - SV: There's also a question of how we can increase the activity of the users in Zarr specification work
    - JMS: The time and interests of various the council members depends on various factors
    - JMS: Let people veto at anytime, even at the voting phase? - you have processes but in the end you rely on people!
    - JMS: We hopefully don't get veto at the end of the stage
    - JMS: You should have the veto in the voting phase too! - There should be option of veto if the problem comes up very late
    - JMS: Thinks having a quorum can help
- Good to go with? 
    - [zarr-developers/zarr-specs#280](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/280)
    - SV commented on the PR to get Norman's attention
