---
layout: default
title: 21st March
description: ZEPs Meeting Notes for 2024-03-21
grand_parent: ZEP meetings
parent: 2024 meetings
nav_order: 6
---

# 2024-03-21

**Attending:** Sanket Verma (SV), Thomas Nicholas (TN), Ward Fisher (WF)

## TL;DR:

**Updates:**

- Join ZulipChat: <https://ossci.zulipchat.com/>
- HTTP Extension meeting took place on 3/14
    - Trying to figure out the best way forward, i.e. a ZEP or not
    - Guaging interest and use cases from others in the community

**Meeting Minutes:**

- HTTP Extension
    - WF: Can see the shape of it, and I think it would be useful
    - SV: Existing thread: <https://ossci.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/423692-Zarr/topic/HTTP.20Extension>
    - TN: Tom's company may have a use case for the HTTP work
- Showing [VirtualiZarr](https://github.com/TomNicholas/VirtualiZarr) (related to the "chunk manifest" ZEP)
    - TN: Been working on the packages for the last 2 weeks - could potentially replace Kerchunk
    - TN: _code walkthrough via screen sharing_
    - TN: Storing the virtual Zarr manifests, not the actual array values
    - TN: Could move `class ManifestArray` to Zarr-Python - arguments in favour and against it
    - TN: Could see donating VirtualiZarr to zarr-developers
    - SV: **Action items**
        - TN to create a topic for VirtualiZarr to gather feedback/comments
        - SV to try VirtualiZarr
        - TN and SV to work on ZEP Extension proposal for virtual Zarr manifest and formally present it for broader feedback
- TABLED
    - Revising ZEP0
        - <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zeps/pull/59>
