---
layout: default
title: 11th January
description: ZEPs Meeting Notes for 2023-01-11
grand_parent: ZEP meetings
parent: 2024 meetings
nav_order: 1
---

# 2024-01-11

**Attending:** Sanket Verma (SV), Josh Moore (JM), Jeremy Maitin-Shepard (JMS), Ward Fisher (WF)

## TL;DR:

Meeting covers progress updates, resolution discussions for various Zarr specs pull requests, and status check on ZEPs with considerations for improving the review process.

**Updates:**

- Happy New Year! ðŸ¥‚

**Meeting Minutes:**

- Let's go ahead with [zarr-developers/zarr-specs/#276](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/276)?
    - This would help resolve [zarr-developers/zarr-python#1582](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/1582)
- Good to go with? 
    - [zarr-developers/zarr-specs#280](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/280)
    - [zarr-developers/zarr-specs#263](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/263)
- And close?
    - [zarr-developers/zarr-specs#254](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/254)
- Status of ZEP6, 7 & 8
    - JMS: Will look at it sometime soon 
    - JMS: Also looking forward to the simplified version of ZEP0
    - JM: In NGFF space we're going away from single PR and merge thing as it becomes difficult to manage stuff
    - JMS: GitHub is not well suited for resolving comments and stuff
    - JM: The webpage becomes the official record of what was discussed and approved
    - SV: Process for Tensorstore and Neuroglancer
    - JMS: Open a issue and then PR - mostly me and my colleague working on stuff
    - JMS: We have internal repository for the changes as well
