---
layout: default
title: 15th June
description: ZEPs Meeting Notes for 2023-06-15
grand_parent: ZEP meetings
parent: 2023 meetings
nav_order: 15
---

# 2023-06-15

**Attending:** Sanket Verma (SV), Alan Watson (AM), Jeremy Maitin-Shepard (JMS), Josh Moore (JM), Norman Rzepka (NR)

## TL;DR:

The meeting highlighted SV's recent talk on Zarr at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, providing access to the slides and code. Discussions covered the existence of command-line tools for Zarr, including the discovery of zarr-tools. AW shared Zarr adoption in a game project and encouraged its use in brain conferences. Additionally, there were updates on Allen's utilization of Zarr, a forthcoming V3 blog post by SV, and ongoing discussions about addressing the fallback data types issue and the review timeline for ZEP0002.

**Updates:**

- SV gave a talk on Zarr @ Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam - <https://vu-nl.libcal.com/event/4030713>
    - Slides and code: <https://github.com/MSanKeys963/presentations/tree/main/vu_amsterdam_6_23>

**Meeting Minutes:**

- Are there any command line tools for Zarr?
    - Found this: <https://github.com/BaroudLab/zarr-tools>
    - JM: Was working on something on this but didn't use it much
    - NR: There are bunch of tools which you can use OME-Zarr, having something like H5LS would be cool
    - JMS: Operations for small things makes sense - rechunking, copying
    - JM: Nextflow - workflow engine
- AM: BIL is working on games
    - <https://www.mozak.science/landing>
    - Pushing them to use Zarr for their image (.png) data
- AM: Interest and benefit in attending brain conferences - someone from the Zarr community
    - <https://brainmeeting.swoogo.com/2023/home>
- AM: Allen is using Zarr for their work
    - SV: Recent paper out of Allen: <https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2023.05.22.541700v2>
    - Extensive usage at Allen have revealed some problems and it may be worth addressing them
    - JMS: Writing electrophysiology data in Zarr rather than tiff is a good oway to go forward
- SV: Blog post on V3 coming out soon!
- JMS: Fallback data types issue needs to be addressed
    - JMS: Not clear how it'll be specified
    - JMS: How do you handle it in Zarrita?
    - NR: Currently, we do not!
    - SV: How serious it is? Implementation or spec issue?
    - JMS: Kind of ignoring for it now! We're in implementation phase now!
    - JM: If everybody is ignoring it, then it's fine
    - NR: Would not be straight forward to add it later!
    - JMS: If implementation doesn't support, it'll fail
    - SV: Have you started on the implementation?
    - JMS: Tensorstore has V3 minus sharding; planning to work on it this week
- NR: Rust implementation of V3 - <https://github.com/clbarnes/zarr3-rs>
- NR: Benchmarking in Zarrita
    - <https://github.com/scalableminds/zarrita/blob/async/tests/test_perf.py>
    - SV: Benchmarks in Tensorstore?
    - JMS: Seen bottlenecks in IO layer than array layer
    - NR: What about codecs?
    - JMS: 
    - NR: 10x performance improvement would be great!
- NR: ZEP0002 review timeline
    - SV: V3 blog post, feedback for ZEP process, and then we can add ZEP0002 in the pipeline
    - NR: Ok!
    - SV: Maybe we need to invite Chris and others from the ZIC to the ZEP meeting
    - JM: There used to be a Zarr-Rust meeting
