---
layout: default
title: 27th July
description: ZEPs Meeting Notes for 2023-07-27
grand_parent: ZEP meetings
parent: 2023 meetings
nav_order: 18
---

# 2023-07-27

**Attending:** Sanket Verma (SV), Norman Rzepka (NR), Ward Fisher (WF), Jonathan Striebel (JS), Jeremy Maitin-Shepard (JMS)

## TL;DR:

The meeting focused on advancing ZEP2, with plans to send it to the Zarr Implementation Council (ZIC) for review. Sharding implementations were discussed, including progress on Tensorstore and considerations for Zarrita's compatibility with FSSPEC. Updates on ZEP1 and V3 were highlighted, with pending pull requests, and the possibility of Unidata's involvement in the roadmap was mentioned. Overall, anticipation was expressed for ZEP2's review and progress in various implementations.

**Meeting minutes:**

- Send [ZEP2](https://zarr.dev/zeps/draft/ZEP0002.html) to the ZIC
    - Merged <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/253>
    - Need to merge <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zeps/pull/40> -> SV
    - SV will send out the email to the ZIC
    - Try to fix crosslinks
    - JS to close [PR #152](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/152)
    - NR to create an issue to gather votes and update the ZEP [PR #40](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zeps/pull/40)
    - SV to send an email to the ZIC after issue creation and PR merging
    - Everyone looking forward to it!
- Mark wanting to organise a ZEP2 review call - but didn't happen
- Sharding implementation
    - JMS working on Tensorstore implementation
    - V3 implementation on Tensorstore is close to completion
    - Zarrita had a noticeable overhead while running the benchmarks
    - NR: Zarr-Python sharding implementation has deviated over the time
    - JS: Make sense to add sharding as a codec once V3 in Zarr-Python gets in
    - JMS: Is there aim for having the similar API for V2 and V3 in Zarr-Python?
    - NR: Zarrita doesn't have various stores
    - JMS: Is Zarrita compatible with FSSPEC?
    - NR: Yes!
- ZEP1 and V3
    - <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/236>
    - <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/249>
    - <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/248>
    - <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/225>
    - Once the PRs are merged, SV to send out the FYI to the ZIC
    - SV: Any developments on Unidata side?
    - WF: Not yet, but it's on our roadmap
