---
layout: default
title: 15th December
description: ZEPs Meeting Notes for 2022-12-15
grand_parent: ZEP meetings
parent: 2022 meetings
nav_order: 8
---

# 2022-12-15

**Attending:** Sanket Verma (SV), Josh Moore (JM), Ward Fisher (WF), Ryan Abernathey (RA), Jonathan Striebel (JS), Jeremy Maitin-Shepard (JMS), John Kirkham (JK)

## TL;DR:

The meeting started with a discussion on some pending issues regarding V3. Then, we opened the [ZEP1 project board](https://github.com/orgs/zarr-developers/projects/2) and went through the issues individually to decide their conclusion. As a result, consensus on some issues was achieved, while others are yet to be discussed in successive ZEP meetings. 

The [ZEP0001](https://zarr.dev/zeps/draft/ZEP0001.html) has gone into feature freeze, as mentioned in the blog post [here](https://zarr.dev/blog/zep1-update/), and from now on, the community, ZSC and ZIC will be working on integrating and resolving existing features and issues, respectively.

**Meeting minutes:**

- Discussed with Jonathan on 12/9:
    - Adding a `diff` w.r.t. to earlier version of V3
    - Include filesystem in ZEP0001
    - Sync V3 implementation in `zarr-python` with the recent changes in spec; see - [https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/1290](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/1290)
    - [https://github.com/orgs/zarr-developers/projects/2](https://github.com/orgs/zarr-developers/projects/2)
      - No issues added after the 19th
      - All need to be solved by the vote
    - Migrated NaN issue to zarr-specs
    - dropping /meta prefix
      - RA: make clear (at some spec locations) that iterative listing is necessary
      - also make more use of async calls
